Miami is having its moment, perhaps more
than any other sports city in the world.
Beyond the [music] anchoring presence of
the Dolphins, Heath, Marlins, and
Panthers, Miami has made head turning
moves in the last several years. Miami
Open has become one of the premier
events in pro tennis. Miami will host
the World Baseball Classic in 2026,
followed by the FIFA World Cup. And not
long ago, Inter Miami managed to sign
this guy. All intended with Miami
emerging as one of the fastest growing
cities in the country. Now it has
another claim to being America's [music]
boom town. It figured out how to put on
the most successful race in America's
new favorite [music] sport, the Formula
1 Miami Grand Prix. Nothing captures the
ambition of Miami [music] more. The
newcomer to F1 has quickly carved out
its name within the sport. [music]
>> I love the Miami bike. We come here to
race and it feels like we take over the
whole city. Everyone gets Formula 1
fever. The achievement is even more
impressive when you consider the city's
already packed sports calendar.
>> After the race this year, we've got to
get everything taken down. [music] We've
got a Shakira concert, we've got Post
Malone concert, then we've got Club
World Cup, you know, and then we go
right into Dolphin season. Then we have
the national championship game, you
know, [music] then we have another
tennis tournament, another race, and
then we have the FIFA World Cup next
summer. We're boom, boom, boom, boom,
boom. It kind of never ends.
>> What does it take to pull it off? And
[music] how do you steer clear of a
crash and burn? This is Power Players.
>> Tell me about the moment where you
realized this could be a racetrack.
>> I think it was a long time ago when I
was driving on 199th Avenue just outside
the stadium. That's about a 10 lane road
and I thought to myself, this is a
racetrack. And I was probably driving a
little too fast. And ironically, we
don't use that road for the racetrack
now, but I think that was the first time
I said, I think we could put a racetrack
here. And now we're standing on a
racetrack in what used to be just a big
parking lot.
>> Tom Garfinkle, CEO of the Miami Dolphins
and Hard Rock Stadium and managing
partner of the F1 Miami Grand Prix, has
a knack for seeing what others can't
quite yet imagine. He's been at the
heart of Miami's recent explosion of
massive sporting events and the
resulting economic boom. With his
background in motorsports, baseball,
football, and events on a grand scale,
he was uniquely positioned to be
ambitious enough and perhaps crazy
enough to help bring F1 back to
relevance in America.
>> So, what was it about F1?
>> Well, F1 is the peak of global
motorsport in every way, right? It's
arguably the largest sport [music] in
the world. I went to work for Texico in
1997,
and my first open wheel race was at
Laguna Seca. My first night there, I was
at an event with Mario and Michael and
Drey. You know, I was probably 28 years
old. I thought, you know, this is going
to be a fun job. And then went to
Fontana shortly thereafter and watched
those cars go 240 mph at that time and
[music] kind of fell in love from there.
>> Years later, Tom's boss and business
partner, Miami Dolphins owner Steven
Ross, might not have been as eager to
take the plunge into F1.
>> We went to Montreal and uh it was the
first time he had seen the scale of what
a Formula 1 race is. I think it was the
first one he had ever been to. And we
were leaving in the car and uh he looked
at me and he said, "Uh,
oh, baby, that's big." Like, uh, are you
sure you can do this?
>> The heat get 20,000 people in and out of
here. It's a lot of traffic. How are we
going to get 100,000 people in and out
of here? I looked him right in the eye
and said, "Absolutely, we can do this."
>> And didn't flinch. We need to do it at
the stadium.
>> The next thing Tom did was get on the
horn with Stephano Dominical. He's the
CEO of Formula 1 and a motorsport
kingmaker. Tom told him about a bold
ambition to prove Miami belonged at the
table.
>> Hey,
>> how you doing?
>> How you doing?
>> I'm all right. We can't complain. We
can't complain.
>> What was the pitch back and forth with
you and Tom Garfinkle?
>> The pitch is very, very simple to be
solid in our growth in one of the most
important [music] market for us. And of
course, when you're talking about
entertainment, when you're talking about
sport, Miami is in the top list, also
Latin culture, motorsport culture. So
therefore, we do believe is the [music]
right place to be.
>> And this was not an easy deal to get
done is my understanding, right? I mean,
you guys, you know, went through a lot
of iterations.
>> If you want to have a marriage, both has
to be happy. You cannot drain up one or
the others because at the end of the
day, they will not last. For me, it was
essential to have a long-term vision.
That vision required some significant
steering right out of the gates.
>> Originally, when we were talking to
Formula 1, they wanted to do the race
downtown Miami, and I felt like that
wasn't a good idea for a number of
reasons. It's hard to get a lot of
people in and out of there. They said,
"Yeah, but we really want the the blimp
shot of the yachts. You know, it's
really important to us for television,
>> right?"
>> They said, "You'll have your yachts."
And he said, "What are you talking
about?" So, you'll have your yachts. You
They took plywood and this will be
plywood with this this artist created a
water scene. And then we we blew it
[music] up and we paint it and throw a
little water on it. It actually looks
like water. So the first year we came
out here and the international
motorsports media was kind of making fun
of us. It's
>> such a hot day today. I think I might
take a jump into the cool water.
[laughter]
>> It's like, oh, they're trying to be
Monaco,
>> but actually here I could I could manage
it.
>> It went viral, you know, on social
media. And then they were asking about
it the next day and kind of criticizing
like I said, well, listen, this was
always meant to be fun. We don't take
ourselves that seriously. We know we're
not Monaco,
>> right?
>> Monaco or not, one thing's for certain.
Miami's Hard Rock Stadium was not built
for F1. As a result, the racetrack winds
its way through and around existing
infrastructure like parking lots and
roads.
>> I mean, this was a tennis court 8 days
ago.
>> I can't even believe that.
>> Yeah, it's all gone. 24-hour shifts.
Well, that's the pool position. And so,
I always like to start there because,
you know, this is where the drivers
start. And you get the lights up here,
the red lights go to green, and boom,
they take off from here. And turn one. I
mean, I sit here and I just think about
the cars taking off or what it took to
create all this. [music] I kind of feel
like sitting in my office yesterday, you
know, you hear the the beep beep beep of
the backup of trucks.
>> And I said to uh my assistant Anita, I
feel like that's the soundtrack of my
career. [laughter]
for the last for the last, you know, 10
years or so here outside my window. I
just hear construction constantly.
>> You know, a lot of this I drew on my
whiteboard and spent hours with the map
in front of me and kind of here's where
the Paddic Club building is going to go
and here's what it's going to look like
and then to be out here and actually see
it is pretty rewarding.
>> At what point did you and Steve Ross
look at each other and be like, "Oh,
this was a good decision."
>> Yeah, I'd say it was probably year two.
You know, year one was was such a such a
challenge. You're talking about a a site
that's, you know, 250 acres or so and
and we're using every inch of it during
a Grand Prix. 65 independent kitchens,
over a thousand tents and structures,
and there's this giant stadium in a
stadium we build for tennis. And it
takes about 60 days to build that. And
the only thing left is a couple sticks
sticking up in the air in the tennis
court. to get all that down in basically
eight days because we have to get it all
out. I call it the world's largest
erector set because you have to take
every piece down and place it, [music]
you know, in the right place so that
next year you know where it is and you
can rebuild it.
>> Were there moments before that first
year where you were like
that this this may have been too much?
January of 2021, we got on a couple Zoom
calls and hammered out a deal. And by
April, we had signed a deal. And you're
like, okay, we have 11 months to get
this done. I'm not sure we can do this.
[laughter]
The challenges at that time were one,
the time frame. I had someone on my team
tell me like, I don't understand why
we're doing this in 11 months. Why
didn't we wait until 23? And I said,
well,
>> it was the sense of urgency to get it
done for 22 that got the deal done. Like
without that, we don't we're still
negotiating the deal. There was all
kinds of challenges in getting the
racetrack built in such a short amount
of time, but we pulled it off.
>> One of the interesting things about this
hospitality aspect to me is the actual
F1 race is 90 minutes.
>> Yeah.
>> On Sunday in in your case. And yet the
whole event really starts literally days
before. Well, 90 minutes is a long time
when you juxtapose it to the three
minutes of the Kentucky Kentucky Derby
or
>> Fair Point.
>> It's the pageantry of the whole event, I
think. You know, being here in Miami,
the experience that we try to create
around the racetrack, you know, in terms
of again the food, the beverage, the
people, the fun. And so, the the nuts
and bolts as it were from the from the
business side is as a promoter, describe
your relationship with F1. You're kind
of in a league, but not really. like but
how does that work?
>> You know, our part in that is we
recognize again our responsibility to
help grow the sport in the United
States. There was a deal that was
negotiated back in 21. You know, all the
promoter agreements are a little
different. [music]
Promoters are a crucial part of the
Formula 1 food chain. In broadstrokes,
it works like this. A promoter, which
could be a private company, a
government, or even Formula 1 itself,
negotiates the right to host a Grand
Prix with Formula 1 in exchange for a
fee. That fee represents a huge revenue
stream for F1, 40% of its total income
in 2021. What Miami agreed to pay isn't
public, but countries like Cutter paid
$55 million per year to host F1, while
Mexico paid $25 million. The promoters
then take on the cost of building the
infrastructure needed to host [music]
the race, which costs millions of
dollars more. In return, they keep all
the revenue from ticket sales and
hospitality. Lastly, the promoters can
bring in their own sponsors, like
Crypto.com, paying an estimated $180
million to get naming rights to the
Miami Grand Prix. In total, Miami has 30
sponsors who are on screens, bridges,
banners, and alongside the track. And
yet, [music] even with all of these
pieces in place, Miami F1 is still not
yet profitable, and that may take some
time. Before this past year's race,
Miami announced that their deal will be
extended for the next 10 [music] years.
You extend to 2041. It's one of the
longest extensions you've ever had. What
did you see that's different that gave
you that level of confidence to go that
far into the future? For us, Miami is
one of [music] the pillar of our
strategy in US and on the other side
being long-term visionary, we can allow
also Miami to invest on us. We are
living in I would say a golden moment
for our sport. We demand the things to
grow the business together. So having
the vision such a long term will enable
both of us to exploit the maximum out of
our strategy. [music] That's the reason
why we are up to 41.
>> Miami has definitely become a race where
big money shows up. What are you seeing
in your sport in terms of big money
coming in either to buy teams to you
know invest in races? How has the role
of sort of institutional capital
continue [music] to shape the sport?
>> It's massive. We receive not only us but
also the teams lot of request of being
part of our ecosystem to invest [music]
real money and we see that also because
we have big partners are investing on
us. Our world is very attractive. We
always think that our sport can develop
even bigger because we have the
foundation for this to happen.
>> In our case, you know, we did invest a
lot of money um in in capex into putting
this event on. Um, and so that time
frame is is the longer time frame is
very important to to making it
profitable.
>> Where are you in that plan in terms of
making it profitable? [music]
>> Uh, we're getting closer. I think I
think we're getting to where um another
another couple [clears throat] years
we'll have, [music] you know, some of
that capex paid off and have some profit
after that starting up here hopefully
soon.
>> How does it compare? You know, NFL
again, juggernaut, [music]
but in terms of revenue,
>> an F1 race is complicated for all the
reasons I just described, [music] but
certainly the NFL is the cultural
phenomenon of the United States in every
way. I mean, I think more people watch
NFL games than vote.
>> NFL games average 17.1 million viewers
per game. And while F1's global
viewership is strong in the US, it
averages 1.1 million per race. Tom and
his peers are playing the long game in
expectation of [music] those numbers to
grow. And in Miami especially, they're
leaning into the festival nature of the
sport. Just like with the Super Bowl or
College Football National Championship
game, the days leading up to the actual
event swallow up the city with fan
events [music] popping up across the
region, including premieres of Formula 1
content that stands to further fan the
flames of the sport's growing
popularity.
>> The Porsche Cup series, you have
qualifying, we have the sprint race on
Saturday. So, there's a lot of
activities going on on track throughout
the weekend, not just on Sunday. We have
this new series with Susie Wolf. That's
amazing series, the F1 Academy, who has
uh young female drivers out here driving
that are incredibly talented and up and
coming. Certainly, Netflix has been the
the drive to survive has been a big part
of that storytelling, but coming to an
actual event and experiencing it, I
think, is when people really fall in
love with the sport. [music]
>> Well, I just want to say thank you
everybody for coming out tonight. This
is so exciting. [cheering]
This is a big night for Emp. We're here
at the Filmore on Miami South Beach and
it is the premiere of our documentary
series with Hello Sunshine. It's a
magnificent venue. The race is normally
really exciting cuz it's like a street
circuit. There's just so much excitement
in the air.
>> The Formula 1 business is just very
different. You know, it's it's something
where,
you know, having been in in motorsport a
long time, I I say I've never watched a
race on television with someone and been
able to turn them into a fan.
>> And I think until people come to the
event, see that, then they fall in love
with the sport, then they want to watch
it on television. So, I think that's why
from a business model standpoint for
Formula 1, it's so important to take
casual fans, bring them to great events,
and then they can fall in love with the
sport and watch it on TV, and the media
revenue grows. The promoters also need
the glitz [music] and glamour of the
Hollywood and Netflix effects to attract
high-spending fans who make up a huge
chunk of the hospitality revenue.
>> It's the traditional luxury experience
out of F1 event and we we've created
over 30 different products and
experiences. [music]
I think there's three homogeneous
products at a race and so we wanted to
create different luxury experiences and
all kinds of different, you know, up and
down the spectrum and price points. So
you can sit in a grassy null, you can
sit in a grand stand or you can sit in
the paddic club. The Paddock Club is
the, you know, historical traditional
[music] kind of place to view the race.
You're over the garages, you're over pit
lane, you're at start finish. And so we
wanted to duplicate that and do it in an
elevated way where we didn't have white
styrofoam ceilings and, you know, white
tablecloth fake tables. That's now close
to 6,000 tickets and that probably
produce, [music] call it, uh, 25% of the
revenue, ticket revenue. [cheering]
We're trying to create a lot of
different unique experiences that are
fun. We [music] have tickets that are,
you know, single day tickets that are
$60. We have a campus pass where you can
come in and you're not just sitting in
one place. You go to the top of the
stadium and walk around and see multiple
places of the racetrack. And that's a
very affordable experience. And then we
have very high-end exclusive
experiences. Um, we have a Kasatua here.
We have a thing I call the Palm Club
which is kind of an invite only about
220 people in there and the names of
which you'd recognize both celebrities
and people etc. And so the spectrum you
from $60 to $15,000 a ticket. I want to
see kids who grew up in Miami Gardens
who never heard of Formula 1 racing 101
15 years from now working in Formula 1
racing. Um and so we want to make it
accessible to everybody. We want to make
it affordable for everybody. But we do
have a very high-end luxury experience
that is, you know, we call it a six-star
experience.
>> It's a cool thing to be out here.
>> And what's amazing, too, is so this is
permanent. This is temporary. That all
comes down and we park cars there for
football games. This is a permanent
paddic club building. [music] So, we
actually use those garages to have VIP
tailgates during Dolphin games. So, you
can go in there. You have four places to
park your car inside Lewis Hamilton's
garage. Yeah. Uh there's a there's a
bartender couches with a TV and then on
the other side of it outside there's a
grill for your own use. We put a butcher
shop in there where you can uh buy your
own marinated meats and it's the best
tailgate experience anywhere.
>> You're kind of, you know, building the
plane while you're flying it. And um and
we were doing that. The Paddic Club the
first year, you know, didn't go terribly
well. The Paddock Club experience didn't
quite live up to its billing. I think in
year one, you know, when you're building
a permanent foundation of the garages
with a temporary structure on top of it,
then you've got to take all that
temporary down and then build a
permanent on top of it. Um, you know,
that was quite a challenge. I kind of
preached to our team, we'd like to do
hard things around here. F1 is a
different beast because it's not just a
sporting event. Some people call F1 the
largest team engineering competition in
the world, a quote space program for the
road. One of the hardest things is
learning and implementing the sheer
scale of the technology needed to pull
off this gargantuan event. [music]
>> Mission control, race control. Race
control. Yeah. So, this is this is
really the epicenter of of what we do on
race weekend. This is John Murphy,
managing director of South Florida
Motorsports, who oversees the tech of
the Miami Grand Prix for arguably the
most high-tech sport on the planet. Each
F1 team brings in around 40 of its own
engineers per car who all need to
monitor live data from hundreds of
sensors on the cars and on the track.
That results in nearly two terabytes of
data per team per race that needs to be
transmitted back to each of their HQs in
real time. And that's not even including
the media part of it that's trained on
40 different cameras glued to every inch
of the track and broadcast into screens
[music] all around the world.
>> This is the nerve center in here. really
anything [music] in terms of managing
the racetrack, managing the cars, the
team interaction, you know, from a rules
and regulations perspective, all of that
really happens from this room.
>> So, this will be buzzing.
>> This will be buzzing. It's quiet at the
moment, but obviously, you know, when it
comes to race weekend, we'll have up to
25 people in here. Okay.
>> Everyone has a very distinct [music]
role in here. Very, very well-
definfined role.
>> I'm sort of taken by
[music] I I've never seen this much
detail. Yeah. Uh, of something that I've
I've walked around a lot. I mean, it's
incredible how how [music] it all fits
together.
>> For a venue that's actually a really big
physical space, it's amazing how little
space we have to to do things. We have a
stadium there, so you know, we have to
think a little bit laterally and and and
what the team have put together is is
really really cool and very unique and
very Miami. There'll be 40 cameras up
around the circuit and the whole idea
here is that every single square inch of
the circuit and the surrounding area is
captured for people [music] managing the
racetrack to see what's happening around
the entire circuit.
>> Formula 1 has been referred to maybe,
you know, appropriately as sort of a
both a massive engineering project and
also a traveling circus. Yeah, look,
it's for us it's a massive undertaking
[music] and really the amount of
technology that that Formula 1 and the
FIA is relying upon, nothing can [music]
go wrong and and we know that things do
go wrong and so when they do, it's
having multiple levels of redundancy.
[music]
It's another beast. It it really is, you
know, and this venue is particularly
unique. We've completely built it from
scratch. Everything's gone away
literally off off site. So, you know,
for us, it's been really that build up
to an event, execute the event, pack it
up, everything goes [music] away.
>> While John is overseeing this incredibly
intricate tech that's quietly running
everything on and off the track, what
Tom and his organizers are currently
focused on is staying ahead of the
curve. What is it specifically about
Miami? What does it bring that is
[music] distinct and what do you take
from it that you apply across other
Grand Prix, especially, you know, the
one you own in Vegas? [music] Well,
Vegas has a different approach. We had
one race since many years in Austin and
we had a sort of ups and down coming in
coming out in US having races basically
almost everywhere but without having
having any kind of real strategy there
as always said that we need to think big
and this is not enough. You may hear
from the ecosystem of 41 oh maybe 24
races are too many. I don't agree
because you know our competition is not
only in the sport field where I don't
know in in US NBA have more than 80
games you know baseball you know we
don't even count even more than 150 160
you know NFL is has a season that is
short but it's very very long and but we
are not competing only with with them we
are competing with movies with with
theater with with with
events with attraction that means that
we need to make sure that all the
element of our actor activity
are pushing that way.
>> When you think about, you know, this F1
boom that is clearly happening in
happening in America, you know, three
races on the calendar now, your race,
the race in Austin and and [music] the
race in in Vegas. Do you feel a sense of
competition with those races?
>> I think it's the classic tale of sort
of, you know, all ships rise with a
rising tide, you know, especially here
in the United States. I think the more
fans we create, um, the better it is for
all of us. And you know like those are
three distinct places. I you know Las
Vegas is Las Vegas and Austin Texas is
Austin Texas. Miami is Miami. If this
can be a differentiated experience
[music] we think there's room for
everybody. One of the things I think
that bodess well for the future of
Formula 1 in the United States is that I
I do get a strong sense that uh from the
attendance at the race from you know
that that young people love the sport.
And in the United States, this market is
a booming market right now in a in a
however you want to define it, a
somewhat difficult economy. Um, and and
globally a difficult economy. And so we
have to adapt to how the market has has
changed, [music] recognize that and
create products and services and
opportunities that are serving our
market as our market has changed. What
are you thinking about and worried about
now that you weren't thinking about or
worried about year one?
>> We'll continue to refine, not redefine,
but I think I think you may see us sort
of um pull back and say, "Okay, it's
been 5 years now. How do we get
creative? How do we create some things
that no one's seen before? [music] What
are some things we can do to try to
elevate it to the next level now? What
are some things that we can invest in
that are going to um make this even
better?" And so that's sort of I think
the next big challenge here.
>> In a few weeks this will be, you know,
filled with fans, filled with cars, and
then, you know, a couple days later it's
gone. I mean, how do you get your head
around that? Like on to the next.
>> It's all going to come down really
quickly because we've got Shakira and
then uh Post Malone and then the Club
World Cup and we've got to park cars for
those events.
>> I love the idea that it's like, "All
right, everybody, let's let's move it
along. Shakira's coming." Yeah. Like
[laughter]
>> Shakira will be mad if it's not ready.
>> Exactly.
>> We don't want Shakira mad.
>> We do not want to make Shakira mad.
[music]
>> [music]